Thank you, everyone. Thank you very much again, participating. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very
much. You're welcome, everyone. Thank you. Thank you very much, everyone, for participation, your
time and effort and joyful effort to the Dharma and making all this kind of happen. So I'm thankful
you all.
It is also very virtuous. It's Dharma, it's practice. You can dedicate that merit for all different
reasons, different levels to bring joy and peace, happiness, well-being, fulfillment to every
single living beings. And then also in this world, really thinking of all different things
happening and to natural level and human level, so many things.
So we wish that what we're doing together in our even short moment of the good conception, good
thought, virtue thought, made that have the ripple effect to help and support to bring peace and
calm and respect and appreciate everywhere.
Really wish the sincerity that is our kind of vows or when we take the bodhicata vows, we say that
we will help to every living beings until they reach enlightenment.
That world is we pronounce the right in front of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, and as
well as all the Bodhisattvas and human teacher, also maybe many Sangha members in the teaching
office said that when we take the bodhicata vows,
always there is so many also individual beings, God, and Asura, Dharvapala is watching. So we said
we will do that. And so this is again, we kind of activated those thoughts.
And all those great masters said that well, you're keeping up the practice of bodhicata, that you
're keeping up the actualizing or engaging bodhicata in the teaching.
Those are very practical looks like so simple and small kind of all it is not it's so tiny is not
insignificant, but no, it's really special.
So have all those beautiful thought and intention, even the smallest things that we do to virtues
or Dharma activity kind of thinking with that all the different levels to all the sentient beings
is just excellent is excellent.
Really in the teaching said, and the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, if he's here, we will
think, oh, I'm sure he's here too, but we don't see that through our also too many defilement.
Otherwise, he will say that noble son and a noble daughter, well done, well done, well done. Yeah,
really, it will announce that.
So that to that, again, so those things really so simple. Okay, thank you very much again.
And so we kind of activate it with those beautiful intentions. And then we go to this our retreat,
of course, we're getting together during the retreat retreat because it's very in the world retreat
.
I believe this means, means that we are retreating from the our mundane duality activities we're
retreating to where we retreat into the spiritual in natural college of the our beauty of the
Buddha nature that we all inherited and reactivated that not led that spoiled by the habit patterns
of the so many times we did and so many lifetimes we did.
So trying to retreat, we trying to reverse our course, course, and that is and following the put
steps of the gracious teacher Buddha Shakyamuni and the gracious teacher, Gaurup and Masambhava, as
well as all the linear master following their put steps, take them as role models, role models, and
we follow our best capabilities.
That's what it's called retreat, I think, and actually on the taking of the retreat means, November
, November in Tibet, or London, November, Singapore, yeah, London, November, and Singapore, November
, that's what I'm using to be the word.
And that means a retreat our physical activity from the mundane, our engaging physical activities
and retreat our mind from mundane our conceptions of the emotions, the negative emotions, and
coming back to the virtuous attitude, the virtuous thoughts, love, kindness, the compassion, joy in
respect, appreciation and devotion.
Those are the teaching said so that's what really we're doing trying to kind of keep up those
thoughts with that and then we follow the teaching again, when you follow the teaching, of course,
again, always in the teaching said, we should bring up more joy in the applications.
We have so many reason to feel joy and happy, happy being in human beings, and also have all the 18
endowments in the Buddha teaching mentioned, said, how fortunate in the teaching, I'm using the
teaching I'm not saying this, my word, please, how fortunate to be have the devotion to Dharma and
reflecting the teachings,
teachings, these opportunities, they're not easy to come even in 100 years. That's what what I said
, really, so we should feel happy in the joy, joy, when we have the opportunity to activating
something beautiful things.
What means beautiful things, we are activating beautiful of lowing kindness, compassion, joy,
respect and appreciation. That is the beauty. That is our shrine. That is the absolute, our Buddha
or Dharma and the Sangha, we're activating that we're not discussing something, how to trick the
others that take advantage and kind of do those kind of smart activities in some study called.
We're not talking that we don't come down to the ground on the floor on this and trying to
cultivate in something beautiful, our nature of the lowing kindness, the competition. And this is
really so special.
For that reason, it's really so careful, happy in the joy and the appreciation, all those kind of
bring up this and the same time, activating that with this happy in the joy, with both each other
and thinking of this, what I'm doing this may benefit all living beings really truly, not just
seeing that world on the here, but from heart, really saying,
may this teaching benefit for all living beings, may teaching that benefit to me. So I, what do we
call open, mature the one's own mind, mature one's own mind. What that means, the spirit of our
mind is very wild. It's not mature. It's not calm, not peace.
It's just tons and tons of habit, loaded. It's like wild wind. It just has also no order. It's just
a regularity. Really, it is. I mean, this is not just a Buddha saying and the teaching said, check
ourselves.
Even short moment, when we meditate in the practice, our mind can't stay. How much money? I mean,
ask ourselves. Even with all the token teachings, even with all the Maha Mother teachings, even we
're doing the meditation, the practice of that, that and the regularization come, religion, stage,
practice, all those fences along in some more practice, all that, but when we come to checking one
's own mind, ourself, by me,
by one's own self, our mind is really very regularities. And when you're regular, the way the mind
is going, we check most of the time to the emotions, habit of it.
Something has to do with the emotions, attachment or conditioned head of thought. Head of thought,
I'm not saying angry to that thought, but just kind of like rejection, acceptance. This kind of
discrimination attitude is really happening.
That is the turbulence of the mind, turbulence of the habit of happiness. That, we had that before
we met the Dharma or Razi, the teaching, and we continue to do that. Then is something we have to
really fix. We have to do it. And then many times we get some kind of, oh, it's not walking that.
It's not walking. We feel a little bit uncomfortable or disappointment or excitement is slowing
down and all that. And then just kind of like before our kind of start, let it bloom, flying on the
sky and this and that and all that.
Now the blooms, that air is going down and dropping down on the floor and it looks completely like
this. Why? Because it's some of the oxygens of Dharma is reducing. Oxygen of Dharma is joy and
appreciation, love and devotion, bodhicitta, understanding of the nature of the samsaras, samsara
qualities, samsara situations.
Really? Then kind of we've carried the force by our mundane world, but we've always been carried
the force and our Dharma side has become like that. And then sometimes we'll be, oh, it's not
walking, not walking. Can't realize, start thinking of something is not walking.
But it surely is, we're not drawing the correct way. It works. 100% is guaranteed money back. No, I
'm not saying that. I shouldn't say those. But it's guaranteed. It really involves all these
practitioners.
It's all this what we call great masters. They are not just came and born with great masters. They
are practitioners. Read their life stories. Many of those translated, how their courage, commitment
, loyalty to the Dharma, loyalty to the Buddha, loyalty to the Sangha, never complaining, never
questioning that.
Really? Once they settled, their courage and commitment is so strong as a solid mountain. And
devotion and love is so vast and deep as sky and an ocean. Haven't it?
And then the beauty of the nature of one's own true nature. That's okay. Absolute nature shines,
bullying as the sun and dispel the all the darkness of the ignorance and habit that fired up so
many lifetimes is completely counter deciphering and it's truly become then the hero, the greatest
stars and warriors in the samsara.
Not worried that defeated with anger and emotion and negative something that not did by the love
and the compassion understand the nature of the mind nature of this phenomenon.
Then truly they become the most richest persons of the all the wealth they got the whole universe
and become wealth, not just collecting in a scandal and trying to get and with the emotion, the
whole day.
The whole day, what they in the teaching said treasured door of the sky is open, completely
everything is really so powerful, so luxury, full of love, joy, contentment, and then realizations
of this.
At all have this because this we throw the practice on the body and therefore it's kind of bring up
really with more body just a thought, joy and appreciation for the body.
And then this time, of course, it's okay to teach us. Okay. Teaching is the very inner teaching or
the highest teaching of teaching mentioned with the highest teaching, teaching that but I ever give
all well give.
There's nothing higher than the Dzokki teaching in the teaching often mentioned and as well as all
those great master or those realize that being some mentioned that so we're following that.
And the Dzokki teaching is then see everything as in a perfect three wages stated at three guys
status, all the forms are.
The mark is and all the song systems are the some book is in all the mind and the spaces are the Dh
armaka status, the externally that three guys did inwardly in a three guys status.
So that is the really the realizations on day that is the what we're going to bring the realization
reality level.
All these three guys see already here, according to Dzokki teaching is not something that we have
to go and get, but we have to practice it, why, due to the our negative it is or the defilement and
habit patterns of the duality is completely blocked.
It's like tight clothes in the sky. So you won't see the beauty of the sky, the stars, the moon,
and sun completely covered.
And who created that type of clothes once on date, duality, habit patterns to have to clear away
that order to clear way that we do the practice and meditating that that will clear away.
Once is a clear way, then the beauty of the nature really shines perfectly beautiful. Everything is
within that nature status or nature of the mind.
So therefore, to kind of open up those thoughts, open up that situation, that is even in the
beginning time, we should start can have more pure perceptions of purity, understand of the reality
, the way the things are, or where subjects are, where objects are, can really open it with that
role is leaning toward the then to bring the full understanding of the nature.
So beauty or the enlightenment, those are the teachings said now with those kind of with beautiful
motivation, beautiful intentions, then we go to the to the now this this teaching, this teaching is
translated.
And I'm going to, of course, the who taught again, this is the teaching of the by the great master,
my home, which is that that but but again, to go this, this, of course, many of you already know
them.
How much is and who taught ordinary this teaching by great teacher, but I have to manage who came
to thousand 600 years ago around it that's just a, there's so many different technology systems or
so many different ways, they count in the Buddhist schools, but more than
more than time, understandably, everybody is a follow me that to about 2500 or 600 years ago, but
otherwise, there's even longer than that. That means, over that period, the Buddha came in this
world.
So whatever, but now about two thousand five years or 600 years ago, gracious teacher, brother was
came and in India or emanated in India, and then around age 29, then he left the kingdom.
And then he practiced and meditated for six years, and age 35, he left the kingdom, as 29, and got
enlightenment of fully enlightenment that he demonstrated at age 35.
So, and after that seven weeks after his enlightenment, he started to the will of Dharma, that's
what offering in the teaching mentioned, but that means, but I started giving the teachings,
sharing the teaching to the others.
Seven weeks after post the teaching is the teachings on the cause and the conditions, and their
relationships, cause and the condition and also sorry, cause and the condition, affect result, and
their relationships.
So the relationship is made in the Buddhism, often said, they never knew what in a to be the world,
and maybe you know, or otherwise, it is interdependent or ordination or interconnected
interconnected.
There's nothing is happening without interconnecting many together come to the post support to take
one result. There's so many interconnections, so many connections, and developing that, and this is
that we don't trade that connection without the cause and the condition.
Things are not going to see anything this way that all happening, that all happening within the
vastness of the emptiness states, all that happening, therefore, since is all happening on the
emptiness, and through the interconnection of the cause and the conditions,
and the things that are developing magically, for those reasons, open and Buddhism said it is all
magical, is all magical.
It's there's ever you started trying to look the search, finding the fact of the how is developing,
how it is connecting is so mysterious.
There's nothing to really experience, even the modern scientists, even the modus come from physics,
I don't can explain exactly how things happen in the deep dome, and the medical level, particle
level, or even beyond the particle level.
How that happening, but yet things happening that we see, are we are here to.
That's called magical disciplines.
And often Buddha use the magical dream like mirage reflection on the moon in the water. Those are
not just fancy kind of like trying to see what they're trying to trick our mind, trying to trick
our mind.
They are truly is all. That's why in the teaching optimization, those great master who have
perfectly realize that they can walk walk through the walls.
They can standing on the air, or sleeping, lying, sitting for activities, they can perform.
Because the nature is flexible.
Nature is open.
That's the in the teaching said, and those good master open said, when you have realization with
that, then they can do.
That means they mastered exactly where things are.
Those are not magic. Those are not trying to trick things.
As is happening, happening.
So therefore, this is the Buddha give that first teaching is a full novel through the teachings.
And which is again, I said, cause and condition.
It is a result.
How producing result that which is interconnected.
And then second big seminary teachings. I'm just really I'm sure you all heard this.
You all know this. You already know, but it's not just annoying, which always really the reflecting
the teaching.
Think that again in Buddhism that being grateful to the lineage, being grateful to the teacher, the
gracious teacher Buddha is so important.
We think what I'm talking is not just I'm talking because I got those things.
No, I learned a little bit from migrate master's teachers in a book.
So all those are linear masters is continued.
So that means two thousand six hundred years ago, this teaching is still continuing that somebody
must walk so hard with their love and joy to preserve this until now.
So we should thankful to all of them, really, all the practitioners, all those great masters.
Behold them. These teachings won't be here right now and this throughout the generations.
It's not just the one man's power happening or few man's power happening.
We're all following the light of the Buddha's according our best capabilities.
And some of the linear masters, linear masters.
So therefore, and the second big seminary teaching of the is then known as the teachings on the
absolute truth.
Now, but I give the cause and the conditions and a result and their connections.
Second teaching is then nature of that nature of the cause, nature of the conditions, nature of the
interconnections.
But the great teachings that emphasize that is a nature nature.
What nature means behind the scene, we see cause, we see conditions, we see the resolvers, we see
the interconnections, something connecting that happening.
We kind of roughly understand that.
But some day we don't see. That is a nature. Behind the scene, nature is the great emptiness, the
openness, infinite freedom, nature.
That is absolute truth. We call in the Buddha teaching absolute truth.
Why is called absolute truth? Because this is not going to change. It's there. It's there, whatever
that is.
It's there. It's not going to change. It's absolute, truly.
The above code absolute in the Tibetan is called tuntamba demba, tuntamba. It is in the Tibetan
world is sanskrit translated from those great masters, translators in the eighth centuries.
And pramam arta, I think sanskrit, pramam art, pram is supreme. Earth means meaning, supreme
meaning of truth.
And we translate it. In English we translate it absolute truth. But in Sanskrit we translate it
that English. Supreme truth, true.
No, it's not a truth. Supreme, supreme meaning of truth.
Supreme meaning of truth. In the Tibetan, true, translated tuntamba demba. Tunt means meaning.
Tambam means supreme or holy special. Dema means truth.
In English, translate it as absolute truth. Tunt means what? Tunt. Tunt means this.
Tunt means the supreme meaning. There's nothing more meaningful than these realizations.
And tambam means supreme wise. There's nothing higher realization than this or higher than this.
And then why is it called demba? Truth. Because it's true.
On the realization level, maybe it's not true for the conception, duality level, that.
But when you got understand the meaning of this, this, nature, then it's true.
How when we see that, according to suttara teaching at post-Bhumi, post-Bhumi stages, before that,
according to suttara level, we can understand that intellectually.
Through analytics, through analyzings, we can see. Those are just analytic realization of the
supreme.
But perfect when you see it, post-Bhumi.
When in a dukki teaching stage, it's not going out of skirt in a dukkin.
Going to your own mind or our own mind. Not looking to the different phenomena.
That means not looking the emptiness of the aggregates.
Not looking the emptiness of the particular aggregates, such as poem aggregates.
Looking to your own, one's own mind.
When you look to your own mind, immediately we really go to the speechless status.
Immediately, we think, "Where is my mind?"
And we don't have any answers. Each of us is speechless.
That is the analytic realization of the emptiness.
But then, in the teaching opening, the dukki said, "When you look to the mind, look to the mind by
the look to the looker."
When you look to the looker, that moment, according to the great masters in the dukki teaching,
he said, "That moment you're going to experience or you're getting realization of the short time
for one second."
But then, it is the kind of window of light of the realization came short time because powerful
techniques.
Techniques explode, but then it's called by the duality again, that.
So that is really like, you see, that means, in the teaching said,
"That moment, when you look to the lookers, looker, that moment, subject to object are lost."
Lost it. Completely lost it.
Where? The natural status.
That is a glimpse of the true nature, the ultimate nature of the rupa, dukki status.
But rather, of course, in the suttara teaching, my own suttara teaching, explaining externally,
and poems and all that, and for those reasons, in the Pandya Parama, the suttara, such as the heart
suttara,
the Adya Pandya Parama, the suttara, is 100,000 standard teachings.
And the short one is, the condensed one, is 25 strands of Pandya Parama, the teaching,
which are often named as the heart suttas.
And there, we see, Buddha is teaching. Poem is emptiness.
And it is started from the poem.
Then, feeling, and the perception, and the conception, and consciousness, consciousness is lost.
Gross level, Buddha brings the understanding down to the most subtle level.
And then, Buddha went, "No eye, no ear, no nose, no tongue." All that.
Why this is saying, "We have eye, we have ear, we have nose, we have everything."
Why Buddha said, "No eye, no." Buddha is, we think, whenever we think, "It's crazy."
Maybe they think, if they don't have any kind of experience of the Buddhist,
and think of the, "Oh, no eye, no tongue, no." This is a balloon.
It's just a balloon. I think it must be something happening. What is that?
But Buddha is talking on the absolute level.
The brahma-arth-sattya level, tone-dumb-demo level.
There is nothing existing that we can cling to.
There is eye, there is ear, there is nose, there is tongue.
But they are not existing as what we believed, as duality things.
It's all as magic. All interconnected, they exist, inter-dependent things.
So that's what Buddha gives that teaching.
Then, so that is mainly teaching on the absolute truth.
And the third turning wheel of Dharma is according to teaching in my schools,
where Buddhism is a combination of the two teachings.
In a way, two teachings. I'm sure you heard, many of you know.
You know, "trandung" and "gidung" in the Tibetan world.
"Trandung" means interpretable meanings.
And "gidung" means the ultimate meanings.
So Buddha gave two teachings.
"Trandung" is interpretable meaning teaching, such as post-teachings.
It's interpretable. That means Buddha says everything is existing.
Cause and condition and result and interconnections and all that.
Buddha gives extensively that.
That means interpretable meanings.
"Trandung" is because Buddha gave those teachings to assure us to the Dharma,
assuring teachings.
It's not that something that is final teaching. It's assuring teaching.
Because we are so, so attracted, so lean to these things.
All are here in the world. World things here, we're lean.
And for that reason, Buddha gave to assuring teachings on the cause and condition,
teachings on the Karmas and teachings on all that.
And the interconnected, all that. So it isn't that.
And the ultimate level, they are not really adjusted as Buddha taught.
Solid levels. It's all magical existence.
So therefore, this third chain of turning wheel of Dharma is the interpretable meaning,
combination of the interpretable meaning and the ultimate meanings.
And then, so the ultimate meaning is what?
This Brahma art, "Tundamba Demba."
"Tundamba Demba," when we're talking "Tundamba Demba,"
thinking of now, Buddha went from the emptiness, ultimate meaning, Brahma art,
"Sattaya" or "Tundamba Demba," absolute level.
And Buddha now coming to the third turning wheel of Dharma, Buddha coming to direct to the mind.
Two. Second. Two teachings. Again, I'm thinking second.
Interpretable meaning, teaching, and ultimate teachings.
Or uninterpretable meaning, ultimate teachings.
Ultimate teaching and interpretable meaning, teaching.
The ultimate meaning of the teaching is then Buddha give the teachings on the nature of the mind.
How is the nature of the mind?
In the first turning wheel of Dharma, Buddha explained, "It is all empty."
All empty. It is true.
When we can see, glimpse ourselves when we do the analytic ways.
Or we ask where is our mind? I said earlier, you know, too.
We can't say anything. It's meaningless. It's empty.
There's nothing we can explain.
But that emptiness is not blank emptiness, not negation emptiness.
That is fullness. Empty is fullness, completely full.
So what in the teaching, in the great master Mohanram which he said,
post-teaching, explaining, not personal, second teaching,
explain the nature of the mind, of the emptiness aspect of the nature of the mind.
Explaining, all is empty. The second turning, sorry, third turning wheel of Dharma,
explaining the call it of emptiness mind. Call it.
That's clarity. Clarity aspect of the nature of mind.
That means what? Clarity aspect of the nature of mind is that all the call it of the mind
are already within the emptiness nature of the mind.
What are call it? Love, compassion, versitim, understanding, knowledge.
All those are call it richness.
Those are just simple ones. I'm talking about the higher ones.
All the five guys, five versitims, are already in the emptiness nature of the mind.
That is known as in the third turning wheel of Dharma, Buddha's teaching,
dhatan ghatan garbha, that you heard, I heard, nature of the Buddha.
Nature of Buddha is, natural level is empty. There's nothing to hold.
Yet, call it the richness level is full chaos and the versitims.
Dharmakaya, Sambokaya, Narmakaya, all there.
And versitim level, five versitims, dharmadattu versitims,
merrel-like versitims, equanimity versitims, and discrimination,
awareness versitims, all accomplishing versitims.
All that five, that five versitims can be summarized into two.
The versitims that understand all the phenomena exist exactly as it is,
and the versitims that understand all the nature of the phenomena exactly as it is.
In a debate, chyattawa, chemba, chenyapan chemba, those are exactly as it is.
The knowledge and versitim of the Buddha has no, no shortages, no blockages,
no blockages by the time and the space. It's beyond.
Nature is open.
That explaining the third turning wheel of dharma,
that is not just only kind of reserved by the certain group of peoples.
The gracious teacher pronounce it, announce it with the line's roles
that every single living being have that Buddha nature.
No one is missing or lack of that nature.
So that means we all have that nature, everyone.
Therefore, we can be bright, bright, bright eyes and bushy tails, definitely.
We have all that. What do we have to do now?
We have to walk, to discover that qualities.
But in time, our that nature is blocked by the obscurations.
Obscurations, what?
Emotion obscurations relate with the ego clings, emotion obscurations.
Self-important, self-centered mind.
Those are all known as emotion obscurations.
And it's a bit, nyumum pudjapa or in the teaching method.
And knowledge obscurations, second is.
And then knowledge obscurations is attracted to the subject and objects.
Even the anti-dodo practices, meditations, we attach it.
Attach it. Those are knowledge obscurations.
But suppose what we have to walk.
In front, we walk in the practical level for the beginner practitioners,
such as many of us, we walk for the emotional levels.
We try how to remove that obscurations.
Then in the greatest teaching, the Buddha is teaching all the great masters,
one voice, to the two meditary activities.
Accumulation merits and wisdom merits.
Not swinging back and forth, keep union.
Not emphasizing on the earth, the accumulation merit is more important than that.
All relative, sorry, wisdom merit is more important.
Both are equally important.
Keep that balance.
We did a little accumulation merit.
Accumulation in the Tibetan is called,
I'm just using the Tibetan word.
I thought maybe many of you know already.
So in Tibetan it's called saonam jecho.
Tab saonam jecho.
Onam jef saonam jecho.
Nam mi jecho in the Tibetan word.
Nam jim is the appearance, accumulation merit that can be appeared
to our eyes, to our ears, to our nose, to our tongue,
or to appearance, can see, we can see.
That's all accumulation.
What is those? We highlight that.
Those are among the six parameters.
Fourth, poor parameters are the appearance, accumulation, merit practices.
And second merit is wisdom merit, commonly, and I'm using today,
again I use Nam mi, the invisible merit.
What's the invisible? That means when we meditate,
when we are meditating on the jokin or when we meditate,
we really, nobody can see anything.
And we're just sitting, sitting.
We're like pros ands, pros ands, we're sitting.
But inwardly, we're relaxing, calm and at peace,
and expanding our understanding to the natures, beauty, infinite status.
That is something you don't see.
Even you cannot see immediately until you wear it like that.
So it's nam mi jecho, it's the wisdom merit.
Both are union status.
That way, purify all the obscurations.
So this tathanga, the teaching, then Buddha taught, this teaching is Mahayana,
the Mahayana teaching.
And then Buddha taught that from all the way this emptiness,
and as well as the tathanga, the teaching of this what we're discussing,
Buddha taught all the way to up to the jokin.
That is essential way to discover these teachings, meanings.
So that's really how it is.
So this is the, among these teachings,
the first, the second, and the third teachings are all connected.
The second teaching is connected to the first teaching.
Without the first teaching of this first Buddha teaching, second teaching won't be completed.
Without the second teaching, first and second teaching,
third teaching is not complete teaching.
So it's all connected, really connected, one after another.
And so therefore, it all follows one goal,
goal to discover our inner nature.
This tathanga dangabha, inner nature, why I'm using inner nature,
but if I use tathanga dangabha, this Buddha nature,
all these teachings are designed to discover our Buddha nature.
Really that's all.
And the ultimate technique is the jokin, come according to the teaching.
So this great, among these teachings,
and then this, now this teaching is continually until
all those great masters continue until now.
Now, and this is teaching, is then taught by this particular teaching
we call, what we call is the teaching of the, of the great master, Mohanramudj.
And Mohanramudj was one of the great masters.
In the many great masters these days I saw,
so I read the books of the different masters.
Mohanramudj is like equally so special with the great master,
and as well as great master Rongzumpa.
Maybe many of you did not heard Rongzumpa many times,
or you may be heard.
Rongzumpa, R-O-N-G-Z-O-M-P-A Rongzumpa, that's called, Rongzumpa.
And many of the teachings mentioned Rongzumpa Panditas as great scholars.
Rongzumpa was born in the 11th century.
Around the beginning of the 11th century, once.
But he was a calm bone with great wisdoms, not his start.
The moment he born, say this, when his baby's time,
he started speaking Sanskrit languages, Sanskrit languages.
And mothers, I don't understand why, why he's, what he's talking,
strange thing, he must be something wrong,
or maybe many villages, things, things, or maybe he's some kind of,
he was influenced by the local spirit, spirit.
That's what he's talking, all these strange words, teaching that.
So then, one time in the teaching, in the life story,
he said that mother, because that time, Atihye came to Tibet,
a great master, great Indian master came to Tibet,
he came to the center of Tibet.
Of course, he came to the upper part of the, the north part of the Tibetans,
then gray or northwest, sorry, north-north, west part of the Tibet.
And then gradually, afterward, he came to the center of Tibet.
When he came to the center of Tibet,
the Rongzongma mother told baby Rongzongma to see, to Atishas.
And in the life story, he said that when Rongzongma mother told to Atisha,
and this, my baby, is very kind of strange,
he's talking something very unusual,
thinks he talks and he don't, what happened, and could you, could you,
can tell me, and please bless him, so he will become more normal,
calmer, calmer, calmer, calmer, could you bless that?
And Atishas looked to him, and Atishas spoke to him in Sanskrit languages.
And Rongzongma, the baby Rongzongma answered, answered that.
And then, that moment, Atisha picked up the baby from the mother's hand
and hold to his, tore to him, and touch to his head.
All this is, I cannot discuss with this young man,
he is immediately reburd or emanation of the great indeed Maha Siddha,
called the Nako Joppa, Nako Joppa, great master Nako Joppa.
Oh Krishna, he's very famous.
I think his color must be black.
Black, in South India, I heard there's big caves of this,
it must also become very, very big yogi, realization master's,
and one of the 84 master's, and then as well as he has so many students,
and the entourage, entourage.
So, I think he is immediately incarnational or emanational Nako,
but I cannot discuss Dharma with him, I cannot discuss.
So, it turns out that Nako Joppa, that great master,
is also teacher of the Atisha too.
So, this is the word of that.
So, he was, when he was young,
I mean he becomes so, he is so learned.
He translated also many Vadiyana teachings to Tibet.
He was one of the later translations, early translators,
and later translators.
So, Rungzuma was a later translator.
He was, and he was a great yogi, practitioner of the Maha, Vadiyakalaya.
And he wrote so many commentaries, I mean so many teachings,
many teachings, a lot.
So, even he wrote, and the life story said,
he wrote how to do the, how to keep the palmers,
palmers, palms, and the daily products,
how to preserve the daily products, all those things,
because he really wrote so many.
But now, of course, many of those are gone.
Gone, and Mohan Ramaji, great master Mohan Ramaji,
wrote some introductions and collected,
I mean many great other masters collected the teachings,
so he wrote that introduction and put the,
in the context of the volumes, like in the 16, 16 wars.
In Sanskrit, has about 16 wars.
A, E, U, U, that we joined, that war wars.
I think it has about 16 wars.
And Mohan Ramaji put the title, the past volume,
E, E, like that.
So, he encouraged everyone, if you find his teaching,
add with this and put, all the 16 wars are completed.
I mean he wrote those introductions.
So, this is the great master Mohan Ramaji.
And he is one of the great scholars, masters in the, in the debate.
And then, in the 13th century, great master Mohan Ramaji.
And that is Dokki, Dokki masters and scholars.
Again, he kind of, in the Tibetan, in Dokki's teaching,
often he said that Garab, Lungjimba is the second Garab Dorji,
or Lungjimba is Garab Dorji of Tibet.
Tibet, that's really in the teaching sense.
So, Garab Dorji of India, who discovered,
or who bought the Dokki teaching on this earth.
And then the Buddha give already those teachings, already in the level.
That Garab Dorji bought that in the teachings, and on this level.
And then, Lungjimba was the Tibetan Garab Dorji.
He was so famous, scholars, and scholars.
He didn't understand the knowledge, memorized,
the entire Buddha teachings, they called.
And he has so many that, just when he was staying
in Sangpu Neutok, the great monastery college
at that time, in the center of Tibet,
called Sangpu Neutok Great Monastery University.
And he become one of the top scholars.
And he went to, within the compass, compass,
compass that he went to the many great scholars
and debated one after another that he become
really the top of the old great scholars.
And then he left about those monastery schools
around age 27, and then pursued the practicing teachings.
And then he met the great Dokki master.
Oh, wow.
He met the great Dokki master.
And so, it is all the teachings.
And as Lungjimba said, according to teaching,
with the Kamaranda, about six years
started and resisted Dokki teachings.
Dokki teachings, mind section Dokki teachings,
space section Dokki teachings,
and pit instruction sections of Dokki teachings.
He received all that.
According to the teaching or the life story,
Lungjimba's family was poor, and he was quite poor.
And so, at the end of all the teachings,
then Lungjimba said,
"I don't have any offering to big material things,
but I will put this into the practices,
and that is my offering to you, Kamaranda."
So that is, he meditated the practice.
Actually, in the teaching he said,
"Well, he is sitting with the Kamaranda.
He is already practicing that,
not just receiving teaching, received teaching,
but he is practicing that.
He got such high realization of the Dokki level.
Then we left that, and he practiced it for over three years
in very, very ascetic ways in the Kanri Thokkari,
in the center of Tibet."
Again, very famous Philip Girmaj's portrait.
He practiced three years,
and then he reached to the ultimate level
of the Dokki status,
or he completed all the poor, vegan stages.
Dokki is in the Namjim Tharsambha.
Chun-Yin Wonsam, Nyamne Kumpar, Rakwatsypi,
and Chun-Yin Cesar.
Those poor stages in the Dokki status,
of course, many of you already know those,
the process is called Chun-Yin Wonsam-Yin Stages.
Seeing true nature, exactly as it is,
on the direct perception stage,
not intellectuals, seeing the direct perceptions.
And the second realization,
and expanding the realization, expanding realization.
Third is, is reaching the peak of the awareness,
Rakwatsypi, peak of the awareness.
And then, Chun-Yin Cesar, all the phenomenons are exalted,
all the phenomenons are transcendent.
And the Mune teaching says,
the first two stages are realization of,
we put that in the context of the three Gaias,
Narmakaya, Sambokaya, and Dharmakaya.
We put these four regions of Dokkins
in this three Gaya state.
First, true.
Chun-Yin Wonsam, seeing true nature,
and exactly on the direct perception status,
as well as expanding the vision,
is experience of the realization of the Narmakaya, the Buddhas.
And the third one, reaching the peak of the awareness,
that is realization of the Sambokayas.
And exhorting or finishing all the phenomenons, conceptions,
that is Dharmakaya, realization.
Those are teachings.
We keep on completing everything.
He become one of the great Jokki masters
that knows all the Jokki teachings,
or in the Jokki teacher's opening said,
164,000 of Jokki Tantras.
He knew all that.
Really, he knew all that.
And then, the academic level, knowledge level,
he knew all those things.
Not just the knowledge, but he got the realization.
Three Gaias within his life achieved.
And therefore, Nongchima become, then,
second Garab Doji or Garab Doji of Tibet in the teachings said.
And he wrote all those teachings,
that his realization expressed to order to benefit
for the followables of practice and bring clear understanding,
general meaning of the Buddha teaching,
and particularly Jokki teachings.
All those seven treasures.
And there's so many, Arsu, Korsham, Grandre, Korsham,
and Mosel, Korsham, one after another, really all that.
And somehow, most of those teachings are preserved now.
We still have that, particularly because it's so explaining,
exploring the heart meaning of the Jokki teaching.
So many great practitioners, Jokki practitioners,
kept that dearly to their heart.
And the practice meditated.
Therefore, these teachings are very valuable.
So it's very famous, so famous.
And now there's Maharanbhujis.
Many great master, I said earlier, read the books.
Also, he is really standing with these three, two great masters,
Ronganbha and Nongchimpa, and Jangmu Moham, Maharanbhujis.
And many of you know the Maharanbhujis.
I don't really, I mean, you know already that.
But he was born in the 19th century, in the mid-19th centuries.
And he was just a born, normal person.
I think I recognize highly this and that in it,
where we do all those so many things.
But he's just a simple person, born in simple family in Eastern Tibet.
But he's very smart, distinguished, and very virtuous.
Even in his very young time, time is so kind and compassionate
and concerning, caring thoughts like that.
And everyone thought he's something beautiful.
And then he received some teachings, but he immediately understand everything.
Around the age of six or seven, he joined in the local monasteries of the new mass,
as regular monks, nothing, anything.
And he received this meditation, but he understood it so easily.
So everybody said, well, he's a very, very brilliant voice.
Everybody said he understood.
And around the age of 17, I think he went to Pelagram again in Central Tibet.
And he went to the Middle States.
And particularly in the Southern Tibet,
there is a very holy place called the Thobran Karchar.
Thobran Karchar, in that area, when he came to that area,
that moment in the life story, his conception is completely kind of lost.
The mundane conceptions are lost.
Completely kind of like different experience, realization.
Don't, from his heart.
And that's been so long time.
So many, many days.
That means many days, not long, long, many years.
But still that.
And then he come back to the Eastern Tibet.
He received more teachings.
And he practiced the meditation.
He really got all the realization, exactly mentioned in the teaching.
So he practiced the meditation.
And but regularly, when he was young, around that early 20s,
he met his root teacher, the principal root teacher, who was,
who was then the first great chintze.
And a great chintze is one of the great master's in Buddhist history,
or the Tibetan Buddhism. So knowledgeable. So understanding everything.
Everything on the Buddha teaching yet is so respectful.
So respectful. All the schools of Tibetan Buddhism.
He made his journey to receive those teachings by his own, his own pit.
And went to different places and received the teachings.
The practice of meditation. So they become the holder of all the Buddhist teaching in Tibet.
He is the founder, or co-founder of the Rimi movement.
Modern time, or they call it Rimi.
Truly, he is the founder, or co-founder of the Rimi movement of the practices,
along with the great Yangmukundra.
They both are really become so famous.
So this great master became his root teacher.
Mahan Ramaji's root teacher. And he received all the teachings from the great post-chintze,
the great post-chintze, and the practice of meditation.
And then he got highest realizations.
And also post-chintze, great chintze, encouraged to Mahan Ramaji.
Now you should write the books, teaching that will explain clarity
and teaching of the Numa schools.
So you should help write the books.
And as his encouragement, and as well as others, he wrote about 32 books.
And now it is on the wood block wall and things.
And all those, in that goal, they range from the Buddha's first teaching
all the way to the Dukki teaching.
And he was one of the great masters.
And then he also never stayed in this big monastery all the time.
He stayed always in hermitage and practiced the meditation.
He's just a simple monk, monk and a simple practitioner.
And he stayed in caves and hermitage, one after another.
Even though he was respected by so many, like in the early, like in the thirties and forties,
everybody see this, his knowledge, realization, the extraordinary call.
He was so honored that, but yet he chose the humble and the simple
as the great teacher, Buddha Hekamuni did, really.
Even Buddha become the Buddha.
Buddha is humble and simple and joined with all the monks and the nuns
and go to the with lunch with them and they're coming by that same way.
Buddha released that.
So this great master did.
And this is his teachings.
His teaching, one of them is teaching.
So I just choose this again.
So this is the great master.
And then he entered Mahaparin nirvana around 1912-11.
Mahaparin nirvana.
And that is a brilliant historian of these teachings, of these great masters.
And so now we go to this text.
I'm sure you all have this.
I'm going to this text now.
And this is the, this of course, according to teaching in the Tibetan Buddhism,
when you go to teachings, they always kind of divided this,
trying to highlight all these topics, one after another.
And that will make a little bit easy understanding of the practitioners
or the one who is trying to learn.
So they just always do that.
And I will do that just a simple way to do this.
This teaching is divided into three sections.
First is a title.
Second is the principle of the teachings.
And the third is the colophonous.
Those are the simple ones.
First is the title.
Title is with Buddhism, and there's always in teaching mentioned,
title has teaching, title is named after Buddha teaching.
For example, Buddha teaching, named after the place.
That teaching is named where that teaching came, taught,
named after the places.
And sometimes teaching is named after one whole recursion of that teaching.
So named after that individual's names.
And sometimes teaching named after the meaning of the teaching, sorry,
meaning of the teachings.
And sometimes named teaching with examples, some examples.
But this right teaching is named after the meaning of this text.
So this teaching, this title is really the essential meaning
of the entire of these teachings.
Teaching, teaching.
And that which is this also is help,
I able to translate this by the assistance of the,
or not just the assistance, I asked to translate this to
Peter, Pema Tarje or Peter De Niro.
De Niro, he translated, helped me translate this.
So he's already translated.
And now in that, his translation is here, see it.
In Tibet, it is called.
That's the Tibet translation.
And English translated as essential advice
on the key point of the nature of the mind,
which bestows the awakening to your hands.
So that is the title, title of that.
And now we go over, what's the word called?
We tried to, C-H-E-W.
He tried to chew this title.
So what the use comes from this, that we try to do that.
So we try to chew this.
The pose is, pose where you understand already translated.
So this, but now I'm saying, we try to chew.
So the chewing is, this explaining,
this explaining the foundation, part,
and the result of the practices.
Foundation, part, and result.
So what is foundation, which I explain here.
If we translate it, if it's a word in Tibet, then easy.
But here, if we say the foundation is,
key point of nature of the mind is a foundation.
Foundation.
And then part is essential advice.
And then when you follow that essential part,
essential, when you follow that path,
or essential advice, then what is brain?
The result, a waking mind, a waking mind.
A waking, not mind.
A waking, is brain is a waking.
In Tibet it's called sanjir.
Sanjir means Buddha.
And then how it brings, when it brings, right now.
Right now I handed it to you.
It's your hand.
So it's fast.
It's fast delivery.
It is like more fast than the paddocks.
Faster, yeah, it's really, that's it.
So this is what is explaining.
So pose is grown, I said grown.
I'm sure you heard so many times in the teaching.
If you go to the very teachings,
always they talk those things.
So it's not just a new term.
Grown means what?
The foundations.
Foundation means what?
The what is best.
Best of what?
Best of samsara, best of nirvana.
Because samsara and nirvana, of course,
samsara is a nirvana maybe you don't see now.
But samsara is here.
What is really best of samsara?
In Buddhism, you know,
they don't believe the cradles outside.
They don't believe that.
So samsara is then best on what?
This samsara is here.
All this.
Samsara is according to Buddhism
or according to Pramdha Mahayana,
all the way to Dokchin.
It's best on the mind.
Samsara is best on the mind.
That means what?
Just only samsara.
What about nirvana?
Yes, nirvana is best on the mind.
Not just the samsara and nirvana.
Part to the nirvana is best on the mind.
Mind is everything.
Whose mind?
Our mind.
My mind.
My samsara is best on my mind.
My nirvana is the best on my mind.
And your samsara is best on your mind.
Your nirvana is best on your mind.
It's all in the best mind.
For that reason,
great teacher Bodhakshaktamuni said,
This three realms is nothing but mind.
Three realms is nothing but mind.
What three realms?
In Buddhism, desire realms,
poem realms, and poem-less realms.
Those are called three realms.
It's all samsara.
Desire realms include hill realms,
hungry ghost realms,
animal realms,
human realms,
asara realms, part of the god's realms,
is all known as desire realms.
Why is it named as a desire realm?
This desire realm is so much attached
with the personal contract
to the other individuals.
True attachment.
That is a desire realm.
Every species,
everything is very much desired
because I like that called desire realms.
Poem realms are mostly born
according to teaching,
take the miracle as a birth
or incident as birth.
Immediately they take the birth.
Poem realms.
And they have the perfect features,
perfect feature and perfect beautiful body.
Therefore, it is named as poem realms.
Poem-less realm has no poems.
It's all mental forms,
no gross forms or mental.
That is mental forms.
Doesn't matter what poem you have,
what kind of desire you have,
it's all samsara.
Samsara is produced
by the karma and emotions.
Samsara is produced.
And who creates the karma?
By mind.
Who created the emotions? By mind.
So, ultimately, it's mind.
Even though they externally see something,
different things, this and that.
This, but it's all mind.
For that reason,
the greatest teacher said in that sutta,
in this,
subjeba said in that ten bhumi sutta.
Subjeba is a Tibetan word
and ten bhumi, I'm translating,
that in that English.
Thiriram is nothing but samsara.
So, nothing but is mind.
Mind only.
Mind only is all.
So, that.
This is not just only the sutra Mahayana teaching.
Mind only.
I mean, you heard also in Buddhism,
there is poor schools, doctrine schools.
And bhiva shaka, sutta shaka schools,
post too, bhiva shaka and sutta shaka.
And the third one is mind only school.
And the fourth one is madema schools.
Mind only school is also Mahayana.
Mahayana is all the way to the dokkim.
It's all then same. It's all mind.
Mind just created that.
Everything, really created it.
So, that.
Why post too?
That.
They have a different understanding.
Post too is explaining,
explaining this all caused by the atoms.
Sutta ntaka and bhiva shaka school,
this came,
the root of the samsara
is cause of the atoms or particles,
combination of the particles.
They develop these things.
So, they don't go further because that's what Buddha taught.
Taught.
Gradually Buddha lead.
In Mahayana, then Buddha break through.
Then is mind.
That.
So, from that school is all mind.
And then there is numerous teachings.
And of course, in this teaching,
we are also explaining all is mind.
Mind.
And that is then our mind.
And for the example in the great master,
Nagarjuna said,
said,
one you don't recognize,
you are wondering in the samsaras.
When you recognize that,
you are free from samsara.
That's what great master Nagarjuna said.
So, then that is same thing in the dukkim prayer that we chant.
Very famous dukkim prayer that we often chant.
By the power of the knowing and unknowing,
samsara, nirvana are went different way.
And the ordinary is the same.
One in that teaching said that we chant often.
And one source to part and to result.
One source is one best.
There is no different best for the samsara.
There is no different best for the nirvana.
It's the same best.
That is mind.
According to the teaching and the dukkim teaching, explaining.
That's simple.
And then, that nature here said,
essential point.
That essential point is
that the Buddha nature is essential.
Essential net
is the Buddha nature
that which we don't see now
due to our again dualities.
What great master Nagarjuna said.
Under the deep of the earth, there is clean water.
Clean water.
But we don't see.
Clean water, pure clean water.
Perfect clean water.
But under the deep of these negative emotions,
we don't see the purity of this.
Our beauty.
Now our beauty, this is essential.
Of course, it's explaining more in the teachings later.
So that is essential.
How now to discover that essential?
That is then
the essential advice.
Then that is the advice translated in English.
In English, it is called shardam.
Shardam means oral instructions.
That also indicated.
This instruction is not just made up by recently.
It's oral.
It came from Buddha, great teacher from Buddha.
Then all those master's.
It's a continuation.
Many times in a new school, they used to say
the stainless golden chain.
Staleless golden chain.
Why they use that golden chain?
Because everyone has perfect motivations.
Joy, respect, and appreciation.
Courage and commitment.
And diligence, really.
And keeping preserving the lineage of teaching.
Not diluting these and that things.
Those are called diluted lineage.
Diluted.
But teaching of the newman schools
or all the Buddhist schools is the stainless.
Really continuation.
And when you preserve that to your heart,
keep that up.
Then it is eliminated.
It brings up the light.
Light of love.
Light of compassion.
Light of the humble and light of the humiliation.
Don't the earth.
Not hovering.
Hovering.
And adding different things, this and that,
all these things.
It's diluted.
It won't go any further, further.
Even though it is a little bit counter-life.
Satisfying for the short time for the intellectual tolls.
But reality is not going to break further down.
Results.
When you follow with the lineage,
instructions, with the joy and the devotion,
with the courage and the commitment,
being loyalty to the teachings and practices.
The true beauty, true result, true accomplishment.
Really welcome.
Without any doubt and hesitations.
This ordered advice also means in the newman Buddhism.
You all know that there's three lineages.
Mind to the mind transmission lineage
and symbolic transmission lineage.
This and ordered transmission lineage.
Those two are concluded in the third lineage.
Blessings of the mind to mind transmission lineage
and symbolic transmission lineage
all include the ordered transmission lineage.
This.
And what is ordered transmission lineage?
Order instructions.
Order instructions or advice on the view.
V-E-I-W.
Instructions on the view.
Instructions on the meditation.
Instructions on the or advice on the conduct.
Those follows one after another.
All connected.
Meditation is connected to the view or best on the view.
Conduct is the best on the view and the meditation.
Follows that.
What is the view explaining,
going to explain in this teaching so many times.
I won't talk.
And what is meditation?
Meditation in the Dzogki teaching is rather true
and is not of toga.
Toga meditation and toga meditation.
This teaching is more emphasizing on the toga meditation.
Conduct means how you keep up the practices,
lineage teaching or this lineage teaching.
That is the conduct.
Conduct is so important in the teaching set.
And all the great masters said,
conduct will boost our realizations.
And we don't keep the conduct.
It will jeopardize the realization and achievements.
Conduct.
There is many conduct in the Dzogki teaching.
Optimization.
Those are known as the port for conduct.
And Dzogki in the meditation says,
true conduct.
Dzogki means thoughtful or head-pullness,
or consciousness.
Conduct of consciousness or head-pullness.
Second conduct is toga yoga,
which is a Tibetan word.
And I saw the many translators,
those famous translators of this time,
the English translators,
the translators of yogic conduct.
Second is yogic conduct.
Yogic, yogic conduct, conduct.
But among these two,
or that if we divided that more,
more in the Buddha teaching set,
there is five conduct.
The all native beginner conduct,
yogic conduct, great yogic conduct,
and Mahasiddha conductors and Buddha conductors.
Those are the five conductors.
Five conductors.
So the first one,
beginner practitioner or the general conductor,
is then the conductor of the consciousness,
or conductor of head-pull, head-pull, right?
H-E-E-D.
Heating, yeah, heating.
I thought I saw the heating conduct.
Heatfulness, heatfulness.
So these are the five conductors.
The first conduct is for the beginner practicum.
Every practicum is so important
to keep the basic good conduct with mindfulness.
For example, all the united teachings,
it has for teaching.
Heatful or consciousness teaching.
Teaching, all the conduct.
That is, as I say, simple ritual,
is conduct of the mindfulness,
is conduct of the tempo,
and thoughtful, and it's conduct of the consciousness.
That is all that.
So this.
And then what did the teaching say?
Teacher.
First, for example, this conductor,
first practitioner,
or first beginner practitioner,
should not act as a conductor of the yogi,
nor should not act as a conductor of the great yogi,
and nor should act as a conductor of the mastidas.
And of course, don't mention Buddhas.
Buddhas.
So don't.
The better to save heaven.
Stay on the ground.
And grow up slowly.
Even if you have the highest realization and achievement,
still be as great master Mahore Ramaji as we can.
Be as a great master Jangwoo Kuntra.
Be as a great master,
a great person chancing,
or popular Ramaji.
Really, that's it.
We should act as,
like only people are kind of trying to act
as the conductor of the yogic conductor,
or as well Mahore said the conductor is that.
Then we fall apart.
And in the Tibetan village, you're saying,
don't imitate a tiger and try to jump.
Emitate a tiger or a cheetah.
Where a cheetah, a cheetah, and a tiger jump,
and we're trying to jump.
You're that way.
And we can break our back.
Back spins.
Then we're heading to the,
what's called this name?
911.
So, what does that say?
So I don't know if we can.
And then it's so much communication.
So better to stay in the same,
and let grow beautifully,
and beautify that way.
So that is the IQ,
trying to cue the two world,
three world stay here.
I live here today, okay?
Thank you very much, everyone.
Everyone who participate, okay?
Thank you.
Thank you very much, everyone.
Thank you, thank you.
Thank you for coming.
Again, thank you for participating.
We do, again, free meditation,
and then we do this dedication
already in this booklet.
So we just follow with this dedication, please.
Thank you, everyone.
(Applause)
Okay, and page, page 25,
according to this.
What?
Oh, 24.
I'm sorry, sorry.
I'm sorry.
23, 23.
Page 23.
Page 24.
Page 25.
Page 26.
Page 27.
Page 28.
Page 29.
Page 30.
Page 31.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you very much, everyone.
Thank you.
Thank you very much, everyone, for participating.
Thank you very much, everyone.
Thank you.
Then see you on Monday.
See you on Monday.
See you on Monday, and tomorrow we won't have the Zoom
because I'm going to do the empowerment of the --
of the great wisdom of the Indonesian soldiers.
So kind of -- I feel so hesitant to do that on the Zoom.
And plus, even the teaching itself, really,
also I can't feel that, but there's a technology,
and so many people were already practicing this.
And one point, a great master, his whole journey said,
said everyone is so kind of participating.
I mean, they are all interested.
And then also in a great, famous sutta called samajiraji sutta,
in that teaching said there was no one is incapable
because everyone has Buddha nature.
Nature said that.
So therefore, in that context, of course, as I said,
we cannot follow, kind of do the imitator
as his own [inaudible]
or other great masters.
But at least they said, and you all read the books
and know that more than me.
So I thought maybe it's okay trying to do this through the Zoom.
The teaching itself, the empowerment is more kind of connected
with ritual and all that.
And so then they're kind of always hesitant,
so that we won't do that tomorrow.
And then we'll see you again on Monday.
And thank you very much again to participate, everyone.
Okay. Thank you.
Thank you.